JEDIT CLIENT/SERVER

1. Introduction
---------------
Using jEdit's client/server features, it is possible to have only instance of
jEdit running at any time, and use the jOpen utility to instruct that instance
to open files. This saves memory and makes the buffer list global.

2. The Server Side
------------------
The server is run by the main jEdit application. It listens for connections and
opens the appropriate files. jEdit will only start the server if given the
-server= command line parameter. The equals sign must be followed by the name
of the file where the port number will be stored. For example:
	jedit -server=~/.jedit-server
NOTE: If you're using the jedit shell script or the jedit.bat batch file to
start jEdit, the server is started automatically with a default port file. 

3. The Client Side
------------------
The jOpen application is the client. It connects to the jEdit server and sends
it the list of files to open. It must be given at -portfile= option. The equals
sign must be followed by the name of the file where the port number is stored.
For example:
	jopen -portfile=~/.jedit-server <files to open>
NOTE: If you're using the jopen shell script or the jopen.bat batch file to
start jOpen, the -portfile= option isn't necessary.

4. Security
-----------
The server accepts connections from any host, so anybody in the world can open
files on your desktop. However, the port is only stored on the local host, so a
remote attacker would have to guess it, and even if they do guess the port,
they can't go much damage - only opening files.

5. Protocol
-----------
When the server starts, it finds an unused port and binds a socket to it. It
stores the port number in the specified port file. It waits for connections.
When a connection is made, it opens a new view, reads a new-line separated list
of filenames, and opens them.

The client connects to the port stored in the port file, and sends the list of
files, separated by newlines.

The port file stores the port number as text.

-- Slava Pestov
<slava_pestov@geocities.com>
